Blog: Okta vs Azure AD: Which IAM Solution Wins? (#392)
supertokens/blog: content/okta-vs-azure-ad/index.md

| **Pros**                         | **Cons**                        |
|:----------------------------------|:--------------------------------|
| ✅ Works with any tech stack       | ❌ Can get pricey as you scale    |
| ✅ Tons of app integrations        | ❌ Limited on-premises support     |
| ✅ Great for businesses of all sizes |                                 |

### Azure AD: The Microsoft Identity Fortress 🏰
![Azure AD (Microsoft Entra ID) homepage screenshot](image-1.png)

[**Microsoft Entra ID**](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/business/identity-access/microsoft-entra-id) -- previously called Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) -- is Microsoft's IAM product built to help you manage and protect identities across both cloud and on-premises environments. It’s tightly integrated with Azure, Office 365, and Windows, making it a natural fit for businesses already using Microsoft services.

**The Key Features of Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD):**
- **Single Sign-On (SSO) and Conditional Access** —- Users can sign in once to securely access Microsoft 365 and other connected apps. Conditional Access adds extra security by requiring things like MFA or location checks when needed.

> - **Azure Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)** —- Strengthens security by asking for additional verification, such as a phone notification or biometric scan, especially when logging in from unfamiliar devices or locations. It’s like having a digital bodyguard for your data -- minus the cool sunglasses 🕶️ and earpiece.

Reviewer: I  love the metaphors because they help explain these dry topics and inject some levity, but I'm not sure this tone is best suited when comparing Enterprise solutions

- **Privileged Identity Management (PIM)** -— Helps manage and control admin roles with extra safeguards. It allows you to assign temporary permissions, require approval for sensitive actions, and track role changes.

> - **Hybrid Identity Support** -— Bridges the gap between cloud and on-premises setups by working with your existing Active Directory (AD), making it easier to manage legacy systems alongside modern cloud tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Hybrid Identity Support** -— Supports hybrid identity by bridging cloud and on-premises environments, allowing integration with existing Active Directory setups
```

| **Pros**                                   | **Cons**                                        |
|:--------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------|
| ✅ Perfect for Microsoft-heavy environments | ❌ Less flexible for multi-cloud setups            |
| ✅ Built-in security tools (Defender, Intune, etc.) | ❌ Not as developer-friendly for third-party integrations |
| ✅ Strong on-prem and hybrid cloud support  |                                                   |

## Okta vs Azure AD – The IAM Showdown 🥊

| **Category**            | **Okta** 🚀                                         | **Azure AD** 🏢                                    |
|:------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------|
| **Security & Authentication** 🔒 | Strong in adaptive authentication and AI-driven security | Ideal for enterprises with built-in Microsoft Defender integration |
| **Integration & Ecosystem** 🔗 | Excels with 7,000+ third-party integrations (Google, AWS, Salesforce, etc.) | Best suited for Microsoft environments (Azure, Office 365) |

> | **Pricing & Scalability** 💰 | Per-user pricing can add up but offers a tailored IAM solution | Often bundled with Microsoft 365, making it cost-effective for existing Microsoft users |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Pricing & Scalability** 💰 | While Okta's per-user pricing can become expensive at scale, it offers a highly tailored IAM solution.| Often bundled with Microsoft 365, making it cost-effective for existing Microsoft users |
```

## SuperTokens – The Open-Source Alternative

### Why Consider SuperTokens?
SuperTokens is an open-source, developer-friendly solution for managing user authentication. Unlike services like Okta or Azure AD, SuperTokens gives you complete control by allowing you to self-host it on your own infrastructure. Here’s why it’s worth considering:

#### 🛠️ Open-Source and Developer-Friendly
SuperTokens is built with developers in mind. Its lightweight design makes it easy to integrate, customize, and maintain. Plus, since it's open-source, you can inspect the code, contribute to improvements, and avoid unexpected costs.

#### 🔓 No Vendor Lock-In
With SuperTokens, you're not tied to a specific provider. You can design your own authentication flows, customize the user experience, and adapt it to your project’s unique needs — all without relying on a third-party platform.

#### 🛡️ Greater Control Over Security & Sessions
SuperTokens offers more flexibility when it comes to managing security and user sessions. Because you control the hosting, you can fine-tune security settings, session lifetimes, and data storage to align with your company’s policies.

> If you’re looking for an affordable, flexible alternative to traditional IAM providers, SuperTokens could be the right fit. You can also explore other open source alternative in our guide -- [**Top Open Source Identity Management Systems**](https://supertokens.com/blog/open-source-identity-management)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re looking for an affordable, flexible alternative to traditional IAM providers, SuperTokens could be the right fit. You can also explore other open source-alternative in our guide -- [**Top Open Source Identity Management Systems**](https://supertokens.com/blog/open-source-identity-management)
```
